Today most of us accept science. Science of today, especially Darwin's Evolutionary Theory teaches us that the human race has developed from animals and that humanbeings basically are animals among other animals. Even though we do agree with this aspect of science we tend to consider man as the almighty, powerful, crown of creation with a natural right to treat animals as we please and use them for our own purposes as food, tools and experiment instruments, and I belive this is wrong and in this essay I will explain why we morally have no right to exploit animals. I am also going to show how meaningless many of the experiments made on animals are.
To begin with I would like to say that the line we draw today in order to distinguish ourselves from animals is strictly arbitrary, illogical and selfish and there isn't a quality and that includes all humanity that empowers us a narural position as top of the food chain and superiour to animals. Most humanbeings have unique capacities though, such as language and higher mental abilities than animals but it's important to emphasize that these abilities don't include all humanity, for example they don't include people with an intellectual disability, psychiatric disability or newborns (Carruthers, 1992).
The concept 'animals' is very wide and include a variety of different creatures from chimpanzees to oysters. We are often very conscious about making a distinction between humans and chimpanzees but scientifically it's proved that humans are more psycologically related to chimpanzees than chimpanzees are to oysters. Thus, personally I think it would be more logical to draw the line between creatures that have consciousness and those who haven't. The animals with consciousness have feelings and goals for their existence, they have emotions and can feel pain and joy and know if a thing goes good or bad. All these animals should have the same right as humans to exist for their own sake as individuals and not being valued just for how useful they are to humans, for example, just as we wouldn't do experiments on people with intelectual disabilities we shouldnt do it to animals since intelectual abilities seem to be the things we base the world hierarcy upon.